---
layout: post
title:  "2015 In Review: Life"
date:   2016-01-07 23:00:00
categories: Life
---
This is the first in a series of posts in which I'll review my year in 2015. They won't be too long, more of an outline.

2015 meant a whole lot of changes for my life: I moved jobs and moved residency, two very big things.

## Redundancy
In January I was made redundant after a rough year for the company I worked for, Hawes Signs. I was a Mechanical Engineer at the signage company during my 4 years there.

As cliche as it sounds, this was the best thing that's happened to my career. I never really enjoyed Engineering and ultimately always knew it wasn't for me, but actually jumping ship and pursuing my dreams was too scary a prospect.

During my free time at Hawes I had learnt and honed web design and development, which I've always been enamoured by.

I decided to pursue the whole web thing once I was let go and it was the best decision I've ever made.

## iSAMS

Within 2 weeks of leaving Hawes I had an interview with a company called iSAMS for a Front End Developer and Designer role. I was successful in my application and started working in February.

iSAMS is basically a big modular web app for schools that manages things such as registration, exams etc. I liaised with schools and worked on designs for their websites and coded the CSS for it. I built a CSS framework whilst there.

The whole idea of working in the web world was amazing to me (and still is). You tell people you are a Web Designer or a Web Developer and they think that it's awesome, which is pretty cool.

My time at iSAMS was great. Loved the people, enjoyed the job and will be eternally grateful to them for giving me my first shot at the web world.

I was offered a job at Oddshot in August which I accepted.

## Livecoding.tv

During March I noticed a website in beta called Livecoding.tv. Livecoding is exactly what it says on the tin, it's Twitch for coders.

I signed up for the beta and began streaming myself code little bits here and there. In the months that followed I streamed as often as possible, usually 3-5 times a week for around 3-4 hours each time.

I like to think I harboured a small following whilst streaming on LCTV and gained some good friends, but unfortunately due to time constraints I haven't been able to stream for the past five or six months.

I remain the 5th most followed person on the site, 1st in the UK and 1st in HTML & CSS which I'm pretty proud of. I was also offered to be an official partner of LCTV which I haven't had the time to pursue. I will 100% be returning to LCTV at some point. If you feel like this might be something you're interested in, [check out my channel](https://www.livecoding.tv/donmildreone/)!

## rrrepo

Now, timeline wise there is a lot of overlap here. My verse on Oddshot or Livecoding could fit here too, but I'm trying to order it chronologically by each sections main event.

I have been working on the idea of [rrrepo](http://rrrepo.co) for a long, long time now. The project is summarised in a post from last year which can be [found here](http://benmildren.com/coding/2015/05/06/rrrepo-and-!oddshot.html).

From when I started working on [webdesignrepo](http://webdesignrepo.com) I spent around 2 years working on rrrepo (not full time) which released in July.

And it was a complete flop.

Flop is an appropriate word, not failure. I don't see the two as synonymous.

rrrepo simply didn't catch on like I'd hoped it would garnering 20k views a month at best. We were featured on Product Hunt and were well received, being the 2nd top product of the day. We had a few high scoring submissions of Reddit and were top of HackerNews for one day as well. Obviously a few posts here and there aren't enough to sustain a high reaching website.

Looking back after 7 months, I know exactly the reasons why rrrepo wasn't the success I thought it would be. First and foremost, the design is absolutely horrible, which I have to laugh about. I consider myself to have a good eye for design and in retrospect I completely butchered both the aesthetic side of the design and more importantly the actual UI and user flow throughout the site. Pair the horrible design with a complete lack of marketing and you have a flop.

It's a real shame because I poured my heart and soul into rrrepo but as I stated before I don't see it as a failure because of how much I have personally learnt about running a project like this and also how much I learnt about the field of curation.

I'm still totally stoked about the idea of a great community curated platform for high quality resources and I will definitely return to the space at some point with all my lessons learnt.

## Oddshot

I began working with [Oddshot](http://oddshot.tv) back in February and joined the team officially in September, which is why it's in this position in the list.

Oddshot approached me to start working on a cool little MVP for them after seeing some of my posts on /r/webdesign. Initially I thought it was a small gaming clans forum or something, but I quickly realised it was something with the potential to be a lot bigger. Oddshot is a Chrome plugin that allows you to instantly capture the last 40 seconds of footage on a Twitch stream (or at least was, we're building out a whole platform now).

I streamed a lot of my work on Oddshot related things over on Livecoding.tv which was a lot of fun. July the 14th I flew out to Sweden to attend Dreamhack and officially launch Oddshot as a product. Dreamhack was such a blast, like a festival for gaming. I met up with the team who I get along really well with, we played some CS:GO, looked at some cool new game booths and I'm pretty sure I almost froze to death one night because someone stole the good quilt, all round great experience. 10/10 would freeze again. Most importantly the product launch went well, not ground breaking but decent.

Within days the numbers were growing to levels we really didn't anticipate. This was a real thing now, something people loved and wanted to use, we had to continue working on it and making it the best damn product possible.

Come September and I quit my job at iSAMS to join the Oddshot team officially as one of two developers. I couldn't be happier to say I work as a Web Developer for such a kick ass company as Oddshot. In combines my two biggest passions in life, development and gaming, what could be better right? I also get to work with some people who I genuinely connect with which is pretty awesome too.

Sometime during October I flew out to Finland for a sprint with the team for 2 weeks. As expected we had a pretty sweet time again, lots of work done during the day and lots of drinking at night. If there's one thing I took away from that trip it's that when a Finnish person says to you 'shall we go out for a drink', they don't mean a pint or two like in the UK, they mean all night until 3am!

Oddshot is currently going better than ever and I'm hoping I'll stay with the company for a very long time.

## Moving Out

After talking about it for what seemed like an eternity my girlfriend, Zoe, and I decided to move in together. Woo, go us!

At the end of October we started renting a flat not far from where we used to both live and it's been just as awesome as I thought it would be. I lived with my parents before moving out and I thought it was going to be pretty weird having to actually do things around the house but it's all gone pretty swimmingly. People over estimate how much there is to do and they also overestimate the cost of living, but maybe that's just me.

Overall Zoe and I have loved it. We were told a lot "oh once you live together you'll find loads of things that annoy you about your partner" which just hasn't been true. I mean, I'm not saying there are _no_ things that I've found annoying (leaving bath towels on door handles eh Zoe?) ;) We also had a brilliant Christmas and New Years!

I'm looking forward to a great year together in our new home :)

---

So I tried to keep that short but don't really think I succeeded. The next few posts will be a lot shorter and less wordy. I'll be doing lists of all the media I consumed in 2015 and what I'm looking to achieve in this coming year.
